call-out of OpenTelemetry sampling effect on APM metrics accuracy (#15380)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/guide/trace_ingestion_volume_control.md

If you decide to reduce the ingestion volume for certain services, the **request, error, and latency [metrics][3]** (known as RED metrics, for Requests, Errors, and Duration) remain 100% accurate, as they are being calculated based on 100% of the application's traffic, regardless of any sampling configuration. These metrics are included when purchasing Datadog APM. In order to make sure you have full visibility into your application's traffic, you can use these metrics to spot potential errors on a service or a resource, by creating dashboards, monitors, and SLOs.

> **Note**: If your applications and services are instrumented with OpenTelemetry libraries and you set up some sampling at the SDK level and/or at the collector level, APM metrics are based on the **sampled** set of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If your applications and services are instrumented with OpenTelemetry libraries and you set up sampling at the SDK level and/or at the collector level, APM metrics are based on the **sampled** set of data.
```

To reduce the ingestion volume at the Agent level, configure `DD_APM_MAX_TPS` (set to `10` by default) to reduce the share of head-based sampling volume. Read more about the [default sampling mechanism][6].

> **Note**: this configuration option only takes effect when using **Datadog tracing libraries**. If data is collected with the OTLP Ingest in the Agent from applications instrumented with OpenTelemetry, modifying `DD_APM_MAX_TPS` will not change sampling rates applied in tracing libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: This configuration option only goes into effect when using **Datadog tracing libraries**. If the OTLP Ingest in the Agent collects data from applications instrumented with OpenTelemetry, modifying `DD_APM_MAX_TPS` does not change sampling rates that are applied in tracing libraries.
```

**Note:** The application needs to be redeployed in order to apply the configuration changes. Datadog recommends applying the changes by setting [environment variables][10].

> ### Trace Sampling with OpenTelemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Trace sampling with OpenTelemetry
```

> If your applications and services are instrumented with OpenTelemetry libraries and you're using the OpenTelemetry collector, you are able to use OpenTelemetry sampling capabilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your applications and services are instrumented with OpenTelemetry libraries and you're using the OpenTelemetry collector, you can use the following OpenTelemetry sampling capabilities:
```

> - [TraceIdRatioBased][11] and [ParentBased][12] are 2 built-in samplers that allow you to implement deterministic head-based sampling based on the trace_id at the **sdk** level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [TraceIdRatioBased][11] and [ParentBased][12] are 2 built-in samplers that allow you to implement deterministic head-based sampling based on the trace_id at the **SDK** level.
```

> - The [Tail Sampling Processor][13] and [Probabilistic Sampling Processor][14] allow you to sample traces based on a set of rules at the **collector** level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Tail Sampling Processor][13] and [Probabilistic Sampling Processor][14] allow you to sample traces based on a set of rules at the **collector** level.
```

> Using either of the two options will result in sampled [APM Metrics](#effects-of-reducing-trace-ingestion-volume).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using either of the two options results in sampled [APM Metrics](#effects-of-reducing-trace-ingestion-volume).
```
